# Gene drive designs for efficient and localisable population suppression using Y-linked editors
___

by
René Geci,
Katie Willis,
Austin Burt

now available in PLoS Genetics: [here](https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pgen.1010550)
___

## Overview

> The repository contains the following
> 1. the main model (written in Julia): model functions are in `new model v9.jl` (folder `code`)
> 2. all simulation result files (folder `simulation results`), e.g. for parameter scans which otherwise would take a few hours to simulate (corresponding code is deactivated in Jupyter notebooks, instead model simulation results are loaded from files)
> 3. Jupyter notebooks demonstrating which code is needed to generate which outputs (folder `Jupyter notebooks`)
> 4. all plots generated by the code (folder `plots`)
___


## Getting the code

You can download a copy of all the files in this repository by cloning this repository:

    git clone https://github.com/ReneGeci/LocalisableYLEsuppression.git

or [download a zip archive](https://github.com/ReneGeci/LocalisableYLEsuppression/archive/master.zip).


## Dependencies
To run the model, you need to at least install Julia and all package dependencies required to run the model.

To learn more about the installation of Julia go to their [webpage](https://julialang.org/downloads/).

The Julia package dependencies required for the model can be install by executing the file `setup.jl` (folder `code`).

Further, it is highly recommened to look at the Jupyter notebooks provided in the folder `Jupyter notebooks`. Because these show with examples of code + output how to use the model.
To install Jupyter notebook, to see how to install Jupyter go [here](https://jupyter.org/install).


## Starting point
As a starting point, go to `Jupyter notebooks` and then `Introduction.ipynb`. This notebook gives you a short introduction to how to run the model.

> Important: Unfortunately, GitHub does not display the Jupyter notebooks correctly when viewed online. So please download and open on your local machine to see plots and equations.

After this go to `Publication figures + code.ipynb` (in the same folder) where you will see which lines were run to perform the simulations shown in the publication.

If you then want to have an even deeper understanding go to `Jupyter notebooks`>`Modelling fundamentals.ipynb` to see how the model actually works and eventually to `Code`>`new model v9.jl` if you want to have a look at the source code functions themselves.



## Reproducing results on your local machine

After installing Julia and the Jupyter Notebook you can reproduce all results on your local machine by re-running the `Publication figures + code` notebook(folder `Jupyter notebooks`).



## Funding

Supported by a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (Grant INV006610 “Target Malaria Phase II”, to AB) and the Open Philanthropy Project Fund, an advised fund of Silicon Valley Community Foundation (Grant O-77157 to AB). The funders had no role in study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
